# Movie Box Office Project

This project provides a complete data solution for analyzing movie box office performance.  
It consists of an ETL pipeline that retrieves revenue data, enriches it with movie metadata from the OMDB API, and stores it in a structured SQLite database.

To make the data easier to interpret and explore, an interactive Power BI dashboard is included, allowing users to discover key insight. 
Additionally, the project provides an ER diagram to clearly illustrate the structure and relationships within the database.


## Project Structure

- **dashboards/**  
  Power BI files (*.pbix) for visualizing data extracted from the database.

- **er_diagram/**  
  ER diagram illustrating the database schema and relationships between tables.

- **input_data/**  
  Raw input data files, such as CSV files with revenue data.

- **notebooks/**  
  Helper notebooks.

- **output_data/**  
  SQLite database files generated by the pipeline.

- **src/**  
  ETL pipeline code.

## Setup

1. Clone the repository  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/RzeznAnita/movie_box_office_project.git
   cd movie_box_office_project
   ```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment
   ```bash
   python -m venv venv
   source venv/Scripts/activate
   ```

3. Install the dependencies
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```


## Run the ETL Pipeline
To run the `ETLPipeline`, follow these steps:

1. Open the file `src/run_etl.py`.
2. Add your OMDB API key to the `OMDB_API_KEY` variable.
3. Run the pipeline using the command:
    ```bash
    python src/run_etl.py
    ```

## Power BI Dashboard
To connect your SQLite database to Power BI and build a dashboard:

1. Open **Power BI Desktop**.
2. Click **Get Data** → **ODBC**.
3. Select the **SQLite ODBC Driver**.
4. In the ODBC setup, point the driver to your local SQLite file:
    ```
    output_data_db/movies.db
    ```

5. Load the following tables:
    - `dim_movies`
    - `dim_distributor`
    - `dim_genres`
    - `bridge_movie_genre`
    - `fact_revenues`
